test test
test all right
so I got a 3D printer a long time ago
well not a long time ago uh maybe two
months three months ago now and ever
since I started 3D printing fdm 3D
printing I wanted to simulate and know
how strong my materials are and the
craziest thing is this is just not
supported you know like the slicers
don't care the modeling doesn't care
the cad doesn't care nobody really cares
about the strength of fdm printed parts
and I think everyone just sort of takes
fdm as a joke
so I I've been thinking for a long time
like okay look we know the tool path all
of these slicers what do they output
they output G-Code and that's basically
tells us the information of when it is
depositing
material and so the craziest thing to me
is that there was no there's really
nothing that out there I mean except for
some like you know it's not popular is
what I'm saying is to take
a um a step file a 3D model something
from a CAD program then slice it and
then reexport the sliced model you know
with infill and all of that back
into uh an either a mesh or something
else that you could then use to
simulate um and so so you know this
keeps popping up in my head week after
week I finally stumble on this great
paper called geometry reconstruction for
additive manufacturing from G-Code to 3D
CAD model now I was thinking this
morning before I found this paper okay
I'm just going to do this thing myself
and the way that I would do it if you
think about it okay you know the nozzle
diameter and you know the layer height
so the simplest possible thing you could
do is just for whenever the extruder is
on you just place a little rectangle for
wherever that extruder is and then you
can just build a model up now there was
a number of unanswered questions with
that that this paper solves that are is
like genius and I'm like it gets rid of
all of the problems I feel like that I'm
going to have in in actually getting
this done so one thing is can I just use
their thing and so no because it's like
first off you need m lab then you need
Python and then you need to do it in
freead so what I imagine is the next you
know this is it just seems like how
things go is someone does it in Academia
and they do it in like some bub kiss
donkey way and then someone who actually
wants to get things done does it again
and it's still bad and then the third
time maybe it's okay but like I would
like to be that second time and and
there is something out there I think it
was called like uh uh gcode to STL or
something like
that um and this seemed okay it didn't
seem open source from the about page I
don't really know who's doing this you
know
um but it does sort of get done what you
want it to do I um
but I I just don't like the format of it
I don't like how it's done so we're
going to do it ourselves and now I will
say the the killer insight to how this
paper works is instead of trying to like
figure
out how to do the Reconstruction you
just offload all of that to a CAD
program so you basically take a profile
and you just use the sweep tool and some
automation to sweep all the profiles
where the extruder is on and you know
when the extruder is on because that's
just how G-Code works is there's an on
button or an on command so let's just
read a little bit of the paper I don't
want to read that much of it so here's
the overall procedure you take a G-Code
file from some sort of slicer then you
extract the tool path coordinates which
honestly I don't really
know what that
means so let's see
okay here we go methodology the
methodology developed in this research
aims to generate a step file
representing the real printed geometry
as output given a certain G-Code as
input the step format enables a
comprehensive products okay Jesus to
reconstruct the true geometry coming
from the fdm process the authors
proposed to exploit the capabilities
offered by The Sweep command available
in every CAD package except for Zoo
obviously um also I think that if I do
this right
I can make this one like an actually
useful tool which I have yet to do in my
life and
um to the YouTube video for it basically
writes itself
because well here's the the the tool
would like G-Code to STL would work with
a bunch of different slicers so if you
have a printer and you have a slicing
workflow you can just use that and then
the on the on the other end
and and I think I'm going to write the
uh the G-Code stuff and the um the sweep
export thing in Rust because it just
seems like a good choice uh except for
the fact that I don't think that there's
that many good
gcode libraries so maybe I'll write it
in
Python and then on the back end that's
really great is that we're going to
write scripts we're going to write away
for all of these outputed files to be um
read in by Fusion by onshape by
uh
freead and
um let's see let's see source
code yeah it's crazy that they don't
like say we have provided our source
code anyways um
but so then basically you can use any
slicer that you want and you can just
use whatever simulated CAD C CAD program
that you want so I really feel like
that'll help it take off and then the
video will go with
it
okay yeah so the sweep command is ideal
for the suggested methodology's goal and
it really is is
read the
G-Code I don't know what a Stringer line
is that's not a common thing
g0 and
G1 and the layer
command Okay so start stop and then lay
and is that actually in the G-Code if we
were to take just
um whatever my most recent bamboo model
is
okay yeah once the tool path coordinates
are
available a python code has been
developed to provide a list containing
all of the sweep
paths sweep path spines to be
generated at this level just the
movements involving the material
Extrusion should be evaluated it's uh
vital to distinguish between yeah
situations where the nozzle is extruding
material and situations when the nozzle
is moving to a different cordinate
without
printing what the hell are they talking
about
it's vital disting this is done by
exploiting the flag values available at
two consecutive lines
oh wait can I open up this
re okay
export plate
slice
gcode okay so let's just
um 3mf
though is this
binary see that's no good though
okay so wait no but that's a G-Code 3mf
see oh you know what it is
though okay so this is the
G-Code okay so there's a whole bunch of
it's crazy how long this this
is but so we want to search for
layer oh wait I found a um
[Laughter]
it's honestly not a bad
idea [__] it I don't
care e
I don't see any actual command with a
layer in it
wait how do we know that the extruder is
on oh wait so let's
EX
k
what if we did this um
for for
okay so this is
simpler there's two layers so that's
yeah
okay is there infill at
all yeah there is for
what's a
g0o the hell is that
okay all
right so let's just copy the method down
as basic as possible
it contains layer though okay wait can I
download
Cura do I have Cura
oh yeah and then I want to do
bamboo
um dude why would Firefox think that
this is okay
just so [__] crazy it's just so
[__] crazy bro they they just want to
feed you junk
it's probably
this oh wait
oh I didn't even know about this
wait I didn't even know about
that I've never com I've never
calibrated my machine either I heard
that's supposed to help a lot though
okay so it's probably okay so how to
export the config
export slicing data
so let's just try
this so but if I do this
I hate that dude these start menu things
that you got to follow it
presumably I can just do
this so I'm just going to put this oh
wait can I do can I do this
[Music]
but where is it where is the
CI okay well let's just try to see if it
works
so let's copy I'm just going to
I'm going to
take uh dude why do they never it's
like file extensors are too complicated
for people we should just hide them in
this freaking
weird okay so this is a step file so we
want to copy
this wait what what do they say they
want a 3 MF is that what it
said slice 3
MF it should
work so
let's go to this and just drop it here
oh okay what if we do this copy
path can you do that I just do this in a
terminal
it just Returns
the but how do
I I don't know how to escape I never
know how to escape
is that
it so if I do this from here
okay so now we just need to
um
this and then what is the full
command this is going to
be wait output the test data
Moon okay so we're going to do this
uh part Studio can we just rename this
fing
thing okay so it did that but I want the
g code
the last edit to this page was on
November oh wait
that's so [__] annoying
though dash H didn't work at all
okay
so
um how do we get G-Code out of this
thing man
does this just prefix it what if I add
this I don't think that's going to do
anything with a gcode
though oh and it did so sick okay so
this is the
command all right all right we have
gcode these are all the actual machine
settings and then the rest is just 500
more lines right
yeah okay so we have it
cool so copy
path um
okay so now uh
format error I don't know what error
you're supposed to
use I think it's just that right
awesome but we need to we need to be
okay I don't even really want to follow
this paper too closely because literally
all oh wait can we add this for right
now I actually don't care but I want to
add it just in
case oh it's a hot one bro a
h doesn't the um
oh this is the step file I'm talking
about this doesn't the um okay let's
just see how does it start out for
real doesn't have any of these
codes return to
home what does the F thing mean here
bruh oh the feed rate yeah yeah yeah
yeah yeah
okay so it's just
okay so okay so I guess yeah so if you
want to improve this in the future you
have to take feed rate into account so
that you
like do something with layer adhesion or
something I don't
know set nozzle temp temperature g90
absolute
positioning yeah doing it all in uh okay
cool
metric oh that's so cool
okay okay change layer layer height
layer height Says Z height layer
height so maybe that's how they do it
they just rely on the
comment that's so funny
is there a documentation of the gcode
that where can I find documentation
about the the gcode that bamboo Studio
generates
oh this is
cool is this on
GitHub yeah see I
um what was I looking at
M16 set fan
speed
P oh yeah which fan to use S
speed wait this turns it off
though okay
m204 set starting
acceleration okay then the
G1 what is this e okay what does this
mean oh
minus8 what does the e
mean so what does that mean for a
non like what does that mean for a
cutting
device what would that mean for a
cutting machine like a mill though
yeah so e is just for a 3D
printing okay so that's all good so e
minus so it's going it's retracting it
right retract okay there you go cool
m73
m73 oh that's not going to work
set print progress oh okay that's
fine
okay uh
G1 but how do we
know whether or not it's on on or not
that's what I'm saying though
like this thing has to do a lot because
it has to also figure out how fast it
wants to move like you don't want to
just move at maximum speed all the time
can we look at it can we
see
for
for for
Okay so
what was
m73 oh is a
progress m73 is progress
right for
so
does it
wait until it's done
extruding before it moves under the next
command or is it you extrude 08 and then
it starts moving while it does that
oh
wait
oh I'm blind I'm
blind
okay is this just scaled to the distance
I'm going to we're going to like
simplify this and just calculate this
position
so what we want to do is to very start
is
just uh let PA V equal uh V then we say
for wait
um how do we
read how do I read a text file or G-Code
file in Rust and just get each line as a
a ve of
string dude no how do I do this as short
as possible
okay I'm happy with that that's fine
it's not ideal but
whatever oh
wait
okay wow I can't believe I made that
mistake that's actually really silly
oh
do flatten what does that do
okay I don't give a [__] okay so now
yeah I need I need co-pilot
again
uh oh yeah so okay so let me give you
the Spiel because I'm actually quite
excited about this if you're oh were you
are you still here bro roboty
okay so now let's just
uh wait what's the difference between g0
and
G1 okay so here's what I think we should
do um
yeah basically we want a vector a
vector of
tupes of XY
tupes but
each a
v okay so that would be
like the split up there would
be um
all of the like continuous continuous
moving extr extruded parts or something
like that but right now let's just
um okay so G1 are the kind of the ones
that we want
g0 okay so if we go to the Merlin docs
again and then we look up g0
I don't know if you
can for all subsequent moves presumably
they don't take advantage of it because
goofy as
hell oh but you can extrude
in but okay but it looks like you can
extrude on a g0 when would you do
that for
okay so uh so wait let's look at all the
G zeros in
here there's no G zeros in
here
okay that's just cuz it's on all the
time that's just because this model just
happens to be on all the
time so let's look at uh do we have more
G-Code here so let's look at uh
g0 oh wow wait but that's like
a yeah that's like a something
else oh
wait yeah I don't know that program
that's some weird thing what is
this this also ending codes we want
something in the interior see wipe
nozzle let's keep
going oh oh
wait wait what model was this this was
also probably a single okay wait so what
what if we do
this in um
here we're going to um we're going to do
another sketch
yeah okay that's
fine and we're just it's going to be two
bodies but it's like who who really
cares
so okay great so now we
can export the step
file and this is going to be two body
test and we're going to just see if we
can find a g0 on the in the interior
of uh save save
as uh print s yeah so uh two body test
okay so now we get to do this cool thing
that I know about now I know how to
slice so this is going to be two body
test. step and this is going to be let's
see if it'll make the
dur uh
so so we're going to call it a two
body let's see if that
works I think you have to make it
first it's crazy how ridiculous that is
but
whatever
no oh you know what it probably is with
two body test.
step did it like weirdly fail can we try
this again
okay so that didn't work either so
something's being
goofy but I don't know what it is
because I literally
just I I feel like I just ran this
okay what if we get rid of this one
again
dude what the
hell is it because this Orient
flag oh my God I'm so
annoyed okay so we need to just change
this to be to
Buddy okay should be good wait can I
just delete everything in here
run it
again okay so let's try to find a
g0 so then I guess you just have to find
[Music]
g1's can I load a G-Code into the slicer
import okay so I made a little test
where I have two small rings that are
like
uh4 mm high and they're disjoint they're
separated because I was trying to see
where it does g0 but bamboo doesn't seem
to Output any g0 in that case
um so oh yeah I want to
know okay so let's just find if there's
a uh a
g one that doesn't extrude
it okay so can you write a
little write a
minimal
okay write a minimal function that
parses these g1's and I guess for like Z
and E it has options and then after you
write that function write another one
that takes the list of parsed g1s and
then finds all the cases where e is none
be or yeah is option none because I want
to see if when it moves to the second
disjoint body if it's just doing G1 with
uh no
Extrusion yeah perfect
perfect yeah that's that's the dead
simplest code that I could think of and
that's what that's what I like so that's
good I don't care that it's like really
uh verbose at the
moment U because it's not really a big
deal so we want to do this if line
starts with then let G1 equal parse G1
line is that going to
work uh consider borrowing okay that's
fine and then wait why is there an
option in the case that it
fails okay let's do
this and then POS ve Dot push
G1
oh and
then
um we want to we want to do
uh oh it didn't write the other one for
me for
wait where was this where's the G1 with
nothing am I looking I am looking at the
right thing
that's at the very end I mean yeah it's
all it got to be at the very end am I
also running on the right
code wait
really at the end
no that's not
right can we look at this
see this doesn't seem right
is it just like sorted weird what the
hell is going on here
I think it it's just like doing
something weird when it fails to
parse but this code seems
okay so this is the only case where it
returns R none so that's fine but then
it doesn't find these xyz's I don't get
it oh wait can we just print out all of
the G Codes actually
so that's allowed and then we want to
print so this is like presum okay so the
last one the very last one
[Music]
yeah okay so I think I'm good
now yeah and we just don't have the feed
rate
thing but I don't think we need
that okay
so let's just concat all of the X and
y's okay wait so is there ever a case
where X is something and Y is not
something now help me answer if there's
ever a case where X is something and Y
is nothing or the uh opposite where Y is
something and X is nothing or does G1 do
you requ
acquire
both that's so
goofy but I don't really
care we just want to
know um
so that's a VEC of G-Code command so
that's
good no can we just
okay all right so let's run
it not found in the oh
yeah let's just change this to parse oh
wait wait
okay so there was nothing so I'm pretty
sure
that wait but can we do actually can we
do another
test uh
[Music]
okay so now we have a straight line here
okay so this is going to be called so
wait oh let's test it oh wait hold on I
got to get rid of this thing
man so let's just say if see if we can
um
um straight line test and then we want
to make
this oh it's cuz I had the freaking
Orient in there
wait can I delete
this I just want to know if I have to do
this annoying thing every
time I guess I
do okay and we have to add that output
dur thing
okay so here is the working command
don't [__] with
it okay so what do I want to find okay
so now I just want to update this code
to refer to straight line test and see
if it ever does oh [__] I didn't mean to
do that I meant to do
this okay I think I think
um okay well it seems like whatever
G-Code bamboo is generating they never
like to do X without y or Y without X
they pretty much just um always specif
ify I did a I did a a little test with a
square that has straight lines and I
thought maybe it would do that but it
didn't yeah I agree so now all we need
to do is um
so are there any movements so wait but
we want to know okay now are there any
movements where X and Y are sum and E is
none okay now write something that shows
me all of the
uh times when uh e is none but X and Y
are
some
some for
okay so these are the
commands
where oh and then
here now see that's interesting that
Z wait but Z hold
on okay wait can we do
can we do
this now that we're getting the hang of
it I'm going
to take this Extrusion and instead of
this I'm going to make it
one now we're going to export it again
[Music]
there we go okay there we go you can see
these so okay so all we need to do is I
mean this is pretty much all you need
are the g1s
oh
that's so
cool
right so there's where it starts at z.2
all right now that I know a little bit
about what's going on maybe I can just
ask it ask GPT to
um
Jesus um
okay so um um um um um um I need
to just ask it to do the whole thing now
because I feel like maybe it would be
able to do
it okay so now I want a sort of broader
program one that reads in the gcode
for the printer but then
it it gives
me uh basically a bunch of
paths um separated by layer so let's
just take the first layer it gives me a
bunch of paths and the paths that it
gives me are the places where it's
depositing material and then you just
get that for every layer and that allows
you to start the Reconstruction
process I'm pretty sure all we need are
G g1s I think that's literally the
dumbest simplest
thing yeah and then this is all we need
there for layer
changes
for for
okay so we're going to do
this do this
this is so many [__] errors
okay and then we'll need to define the
the uh sweep profile geometry but that
should be
easy do I even have freead on here I do
I feel like I'll start with freead just
so I can re reproduce the
paper okay
all right come on come on come
on
um
sick oh wait we need to just fix that
okay so now we just want to make okay so
now I just want to
um great now make something
wait great now can you make something
where I can visualize the tool path
why did it switch to
python 2D
plots did dude no
okay okay never mind I let's use uh
let's use Python but how do I how do I
export the results from the
rust code cuz I need to read I need to
write it out and then read it into
python
presumably ostensibly
oh
sensibly
[Music]
for for
oh wait
uh my Json
Json for
[Music]
okay so now we have a Json file
that just stores it all so that's great
okay so
now okay now write the code to read that
that Json in and uh visualize
it oh [__]
is this going to
work dude
dude python is such a [__] dog [__]
language Bro [__] python man that's so
insane is this going to
work is it did it open anything though
or
okay sick
can you add little arrows so that I know
where it's
[Music]
moving let's see is this going to work
python viz. does that
work okay nice okay I get it
now so this I don't understand at all is
this only doing the first layer or
something I can't zoom in or anything
the [__] is it doing
bro oh wow
should I do that
but don't I need to first I need
to personally I don't really like this
stuff
though oh
[__] what the [__]
where the hell is it man
see and now I can't
like this is pretty cool though that it
was able to do that
why doesn't it show it
though oh wait don't you have to do this
oh my God thing is so
[Music]
annoying
this and they make it search with bang
dude hide menu always can we just change
this to this
but you can't zoom in so it's like
whatever but I just don't understand
where we missed
stuff why did we miss all of these
things
also wait does this output only
the okay I need to make some food uh cuz
I got class
today but we're making
progress uh i i s sort of understand
gcode soon we will have something for
the masses to simulate fdm parts and
it'll be sick it'll be so cool and and
hopefully we'll get to actually doing
the test to see if
like we can actually model or you know
correctly
model fdm parts and and get their
stresses and strains and deformations
way more accurate cuz what are we going
to do print at 100% infill all the time
I